# Perceptual_Quantization_Optimization


## Download the project
run this command in your terminal : git clone https://github.com/minhienhy06/Perceptual_Quantization_Optimization.git


## Structure
```text
Project
├── dataset
│   ├── akiyo_cif.y4m
│   ├── coastguard_cif.y4m
│   ├── foreman_cif.y4m
│   ├── hall_monitor_cif.y4m
│   ├── mobile_cif.y4m
│   └── stefan_sif.y4m
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
└── source
    ├── main.py
    ├── metrics.py
    ├── qp_map.py
    ├── quantization.py
    └── video_io.py
```
## Requirements
pip install -r requirements.txt.

this one will help you install all what you need for the subject .


## Dataset .

### For the light of this project i do not upload all the dataset in here but you can still find them in Xiph.org videos.

1. Go to the [Xiph.org Video Dataset (Derf's Collection)](https://media.xiph.org/video/derf/).

2. Download your preferred `.y4m` test videos ( raw video ).
 
## Run the project .


### python3 file's name.py
qp_map.py : this file will calculate a quantization map by using spatial variance and luminance masking.

quantization.py : this file will devide the map from qp_map.py.

metrics.py : this file will calculat the SSIM (Structural Similarity Index Measure) of the video and the bitsavings.

main.py : change the input and run and wait to see the visualization

### streamlit run video_io.py

video_io.py : for the interaction you can use this file using streamlit .

## Futher explainations 

### QP_MAP 

I use spatial variance which is find the different in the frequencies of the frames, i try to divide them into pixels and what parts has high frequency (over simplify : the 2 pixels next to each other but really different . For example the grass, when we devide the frames of grass and you compare each pixels and you will see these pixels are really different ), and we are less sentitive to high frequency so i compress it by let it has high QP value.
Also i use luminance masking. Humans are less sentive to extreme light and dark so lumninace masking will also increase the value of qp map at those places. 

raw_calculated_qp = base_qp * variance_ratio * luminance_multiplier
### Quantization

It will use DCT ( discreate cosine transform ) to get the frequeny domain , then devide to the qp map, lastly this code file will take inverse DCT to get back the frames.

## Live demo

follow the command : 

cd source 

streamlit run video_io.py 

## Authors : 
Trần Minh Hiển

Gemini

All the code was generated by gemini but under my supervise. I feel in this project i overuse gemini to finish this project even gemini sent me a warning that i use too much and i should take a break . But i still try to understand the code and all the maths in here i swear i understand and gemini generated maths from my understandings not just give a random maths to finish the project. And all the README.md here are truely human write not AI generated. 







